Done
- [ ] 2.1.5 Section Review, Questions 1,2,3,4 and 5
1. The central processor unit (CPU) contains registers and what other basic elements?
Control Unit, Arithmetic Logic Unit, and the clock.
2. The central processor unit is connected to the rest of the computer system using what three
buses?
Data, Address, and Control buses.
3. Why does memory access take more machine cycles than register access?
Conventional memory is outside the CPU and it responds more slowly to access requests.
Registers are hard-wired inside the CPU.
4. What are the three basic steps in the instruction execution cycle?
Fetch, decode, execute
5. Which two additional steps are required in the instruction execution cycle when a memory
operand is used?
Fetch and Store
- [ ] 2.4.3 Section Review, Question 5\
5. What is the purpose of the 8259A PIC controller?
The 8259 is the interrupt controller chip, sometimes called PIC, that schedules hardware interrupts and interrupts the CPU.

- [ ] 2.5.2 Section Review, Questions 1, 3, 4, and 5
1. Of the four levels of input/output in a computer system, which is the most universal and
portable?
The application program level
3. Why are device drivers necessary, given that the BIOS already has code that communicates
with the computer’s hardware?
New devices are invented all the time with capabilities that were often not anticipated when the BIOS was written.
4. The BIOS level

5. No. The same BIOS would work for both operating systems. Many computer owners install two or three operating systems on


- [ ] 2.8 Review Question 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 19, 20, 25, and 26

7. Which part of the CPU performs floating-point arithmetic? Floating Point Unit (FPU)
8. On a 32-bit processor, how many bits are contained in each floating-point data register? 80
9. (True/False): The x86-64 instruction set is backward-compatible with the x86 instruction set. True
10. (True/False): In current 64-bit chip implementations, all 64 bits are used for addressing. False

12. (True/False): Static RAM is usually less expensive than dynamic RAM. False

19. (True/False): A bus is a plastic cable that is attached to the motherboard at both ends, but
does not sit directly on the motherboard. False

20. (True/False): CMOS RAM is the same as static RAM, meaning that it holds its value with-
out any extra power or refresh cycles. False

25. At which level(s) can an assembly language program manipulate input/output? Hardware, BIOS, and OS

26. Why do game programs often send their sound output directly to the sound card’s hardware
ports?
It gives them more precise control of hardware, and execution is faster.
